
---
layout: post
title:  "Reading Reflection 2"
date:   2022-09-27 18:21:49 -0400
categories: 
---

This week, I read a section from An Overview of The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire by JG Pocock that I wanted to discuss. Pocock’s work mostly focuses on analyzing Edward Gibbon’s telling of the history through his famous The History of the Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire.
When I first heard about Gibbon’s Decline and Fall, I began to wonder how it was possible to accurately report on the full decline and fall of the Roman Empire. The time period in which the decline and fall occurred is so long, so obscure because of the lack of eyewitness accounts available and because there is so much context needed to understand all the events that occurred. In Pocock’s writing about Gibbon, he highlights this issue when discussing the way that the Islamic world was covered in Gibbon’s Decline and Fall.
From reading Pocock, my impression of how he perceives Gibbon’s work related to the Islamic world is that Pocock believes that Gibbon didn’t do the Islamic world justice in his writing. In talking about Gibbon’s treatment of the Islamic world, Pocock states,” Gibbon is from this point committed to writing a history of two empires and religions in conflict, but is at the same time committed to writing a series of histories defined as peripheral to, but more momentous than, the passive history of Byzantium”. Essentially, Pocock’s argument is that it is difficult to write a history of Islam when the title of the series is focusing on the Roman, and in this specific volume, the Byzantine empire.
This realization made me think about history in general and how it’s told. Most of the readings I’ve read are from a more Euro-centric perspective, and most popular historical reviews are, with The Decline and Fall being just one example. When we treat European people like the “subjects” of history, and we treat Islamic people like the side characters they had to encounter in their journey, I wonder if we are selling those peoples short.
From a digital humanities perspective, I think some analysis on determining historical bias would be really cool. I know there exist some fact checking services out there that can detect bias towards one political party after using some algorithm, and I wonder if there’s room in our historical discourse for a specific tool that does the same thing to analyze historical reviews.
